MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule (#118)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy: draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy.md

The REGISTER_CLIENT_CID ({{capsule-reg-client}}) and REGISTER_TARGET_CID
({{capsule-reg-target}}) capsule types allow a client to inform
the proxy about a new client CID or a new target CID,
respectively. These capsule types MUST only be sent by a client. These capsule
types share a sequence number space which allows the proxy to limit the

> number of active registrations. The first registration has sequence number 0
> and subsequent registrations increment the sequence number by 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number of active registrations. The first registration (of either client CID or target CID)
has sequence number 0, and subsequent registrations increment the sequence number
by 1.
```

either rejecting the proxy-chosen client VCID or no longer
needs the connection ID registered.

The MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule type {{capsule-max-cids}} MUST only be sent by the
proxy. It indicates to the client the maximum permitted sequence number for
connection ID registrations. This allows the proxy to limit the number of active
registrations. The initial maximum is 1, allowing the client to send 2 registrations,
one with sequence number 0 and another with sequence number 1. A proxy MUST NOT
send a MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule with a value less than 1. Clients receiving a
MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule with a value less than 1 MUST reset the stream with

> TODO error code.

Author: Not sure what stream reset code is most appropriate here 🤔

Reviewer 2: [H3_DATAGRAM_ERROR](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9297#name-http-3-error-code)

Author: Perhaps the is _most_ appropriate, but it feels a little odd to me since the description is "Datagram or Capsule Protocol parse error". We're not failing to parse the capsule protocol, we're just unhappy with a value that happened to be delivered over a capsule.

Reviewer 2: Yeah but that's what we've done with other capsules, here's from [connect-ip](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9484#section-4.7.2-8):

If any of the capsule fields are malformed upon reception, the receiver of the capsule MUST follow the error-handling procedure defined in [Section 3.3](https://rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9297#section-3.3) of [[HTTP-DGRAM](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9484#RFC9297)].

## REGISTER_CLIENT_CID {#capsule-reg-client}

The REGISTER_CLIENT_CID capsule has type `0xffe600` and is sent by the client.
It contains a single connection ID that is the client-provided connection
on the client-to-target QUIC connection.

~~~
Register CID Capsule {
  Type (i) = 0xffe600
  Length (i),
  Sequence Number (i),
  Connection ID Length (i)
  Connection ID (0..2040),
}
~~~
{: #fig-capsule-register-client-cid title="Register CID Capsule Format"}

> Sequence Number

Reviewer 2: Do we need this field to be in the capsule? QUIC uses sequence numbers because packet reordering can cause reordering of connection ID frames. Here, on the other hand, we're on the capsule stream and that's ordered, so we can know the sequence number implicitly. I'd suggest removing this field to keep the implementation simpler.

Author: It's not needed, no. I don't have a strong opinion, but the advantage I see is it may make it easier to debug when client and server have a different understanding of what the count is. Considering that, please confirm you'd rather it be omitted and I'll update.

Reviewer: I'd love to avoid having the sequence number as an extra field, just to reduce the number of things we're adding to the wire format. I get that there's a bit more state to keep, but this is a reliable stream.

Reviewer 2: My gut feeling is that as an implementer I would keep track of the last sequence number anyway, and manually validate that the peer is sending them in correct order. So removing the field means less code

## CLOSE_CLIENT_CID and CLOSE_TARGET_CID {#capsule-close}

CLOSE_CLIENT_CID and CLOSE_TARGET_CID capsule types have types `0xffe605` and
`0xffe606`, respectively, and include a single connection ID to close. They
can be sent by either clients or proxies.

~~~
Close CID Capsule {

>   Type (i) = 0xffe605, 0xffe606

Reviewer 2: Pro-tip: in previous drafts I would write here `see {{iana}} for the value of the capsule type` so that we only need to modify a single value when we rev the draft

paths. Note that initial REGISTER_CLIENT_CID capsules MAY be sent prior to
receiving an HTTP response from the proxy.

Connection ID registrations are subject to a proxy-advertised limit. Each registration
has a corresponding sequence number. The client MUST NOT send a registration
capsule with a sequence number greater than what the proxy advertises via the
MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule. The initial MAX_CONNECTION_IDS value is 1, allowing both
sequence numbers 0 and 1 for a total of two registrations without receiving a
MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsule from the proxy.

> Clients which cannot register new connection IDs within a reasonable timeout due to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients that cannot register new connection IDs within a reasonable time due to
```

Packets sent by the client that are forwarded SHOULD be
considered as activity for restarting QUIC's Idle Timeout {{QUIC}}.

In order to permit the client to change client-to-target connection IDs, the proxy
SHOULD send MAX_CONNECTION_IDS capsules allowing the client additional connection ID
registrations.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we add some guidance for clients as to what they should do if they run out of registrations?

Author: If the client just sent a fin on the client-to-proxy HTTP stream, that wouldn't give the proxy indication that something bad happened which is unfortunate. If we went with a reset, what's the most appropriate? H3_GENERAL_PROTOCOL_ERROR? 🤔

Reviewer 2: Is that the guidance? Or should it be that the client just can't migrate any more? Happy to move this to a separate issue if you prefer

Author: Migration is only relevant when you're doing forwarding mode. Limiting CID registration is still useful when there's no forwarding because the proxy may want to limit the number of CIDs considered for port reuse

Reviewer 2: Oh right I had it backwards. If the client runs out of CIDs in this way, it's the CIDs on the target-to-proxy leg right? So the consequence is that the client can't send new connection IDs to the target, but the connection could keep working?

Reviewer 2: I see. OK then I think it's worth it to explain this scenario and tell the client that they will need to abort the connection if after some timeout they're still blocked in this state
